Version 6.6.6 (#211)
LycheeOrg/LycheeOrg.github.io: src/content/post/2025-06-11-version-6-6-6.mdx

category: Release Notes
tags:
  - lychee
  - blabla
  - Supporter Edition
  - v6
---

Five days ago, we looked back on what we have accomplished over the past six months.

#### What is special about version 6.6.6?

Today, we are happy to announce the release of Lychee [version 6.6.6](https://github.com/LycheeOrg/Lychee/releases/tag/v6.6.6). An ill-fated version number which marks a brutal change in the way Lychee binds photos to albums.
We are moving from "*a photo can only be in a single album*" to "*a photo can be in multiple albums*".

To "*render unto Caesar*", [Matthias Nagel](https://github.com/nagmat84) was the first to suggest it, and I was not convinced that it was a good idea.
It has always been a feature that I thought was not needed, and I was afraid that it would complicate the codebase.
Now having worked on creating a timeline view, I can see how useful it is to have a photo in multiple albums: it avoids duplication.

While invisible to the user, this architecture change has a big impact. By having the relation a photo has a unique album,
it makes it possible to do a file mapping between the photos/albums in Lychee and the files/folders on the backend.

> While this is not implemented, it could be seen in the future to be made possible as this has been a long-standing complaint from some of our users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While this is not currently implemented, it could be in the future as this has been a long-standing complaint from some of our users.
```

By moving to a many-to-many relation between photos and albums, this mapping is no longer an "easy" task, but we believe the benefits outweigh the drawbacks.

#### Improved way of working with stacked pull requests

Having so many changes in the codebase in parallel makes it hard to keep track of what is going on, what needs to be reviewed, etc.
To make it easier on our reviewers, we use [stacked pull requests](https://www.stacking.dev/). The idea being that each pull request builds on top of a previous one.
This way the changes are smaller and thus easier to review.

The first drawback of this approach is that if you use the strategy squash-and-merge, you are facing some issues.

- While the CI guarantees that if you merge from bottom to top into the main branch, you will not have any issues.
  It quickly goes sideway as conflicts between commits are bound to happen and need to be resolved.
  The easy way to avoid this is to collapse the stack into a single commit once all the PR are approved before merging into main. 
- The second issue is that because of squash-and-merge, you will need to rebase to ensure a nice linear stack and propagate changes up.

>   A review on the bottom with change requests will impact the PR above it. There are no easy solution to this but some git wizardy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  A review on the bottom with change requests will impact the PR above it. There are no easy solution to this but some git wizardry.
```

>   I will admit that `git reset --soft xxx` has become one of my best friend.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  I will admit that `git reset --soft xxx` has become one of my best friends.
```

> And finally, the last drawback of this approach is the growing number of PR waiting to be merged. In itself it is not to annoying but GitHub

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And finally, the last drawback of this approach is the growing number of PRs waiting to be merged. In itself it is not too annoying but GitHub
```
